dev, v3.0: add tidb-in-kubernetes file in the monitoring section (#1364)
pingcap/docs: dev/how-to/monitor/tidb-in-kubernetes.md

The monitoring data is not persisted by default. If the monitoring container restarts for some reason, the existing monitoring data gets lost. To persist the monitoring data, you can set `monitor.persistent` to `true` in the `values.yaml` file. When you enable this option, you need to set `storageClass` to an existing storage in the current cluster, and this storage is required to support persisting data, otherwise there is still a risk of data loss.

For some of the monitoring system configuration details, you can check [TiDB Cluster Monitoring](/how-to/monitor/monitor-a-cluster.md) for reference.

### View the monitoring dashboard

You can run the `kubectl port-forward` command to view the monitoring dashboard:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl port-forward -n ${namespace} svc/${releaseName}-grafana 3000:3000 &>/tmp/portforward-grafana.log
```

Then open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser and the default username and password are `admin`.

> The Grafana service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports the load balancer, you can change `monitor.grafana.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml` and then access the dashboard through the load balancer after executing `helm upgrade`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Grafana service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports load balancer, you can change `monitor.grafana.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml` and then access the dashboard through the load balancer after executing `helm upgrade`.
```

If there is no need to use Grafana, you can save resources by setting `monitor.grafana.create` to `false` in `values.yaml` during deployment. In this case, you need to use other existing or newly deployed data visualization tools to directly access the monitoring data to complete the data visualization.

### Access the monitoring data

If you need to have a direct access to the monitoring data, you can run the `kubectl port-forward` command to access Prometheus:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
kubectl port-forward -n ${namespace} svc/${releaseName}-prometheus 9090:9090 &>/tmp/portforward-prometheus.log
```

Then open [http://localhost:9090](http://localhost:9090) in your browser or access this address via a client tool.

> The Prometheus service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports load balancer, you can change `monitor.prometheus.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml` and then access the monitoring data through the load balancer after executing `helm upgrade`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Prometheus service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports load balancer, you can change `monitor.prometheus.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml`. Then, after executing `helm upgrade`, access the monitoring data through the load balancer.
```

> The Prometheus service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports the load balancer, you can change `monitor.prometheus.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml` and then access the monitoring data through the load balancer after executing `helm upgrade`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prometheus service is exposed by `NodePort` by default. If the Kubernetes cluster supports load balancer, you can change `monitor.prometheus.service.type` to `LoadBalancer` in `values.yaml` and then access the monitoring data through the load balancer after executing `helm upgrade`.
```

## Monitor the Kubernetes cluster

The TiDB monitoring system deployed with the cluster only focuses on the operation of the TiDB components themselves, and does not include the monitoring of container resources, hosts, Kubernetes components, and TiDB Operator. Monitoring of these components or resources requires the deployment of a monitoring system across the entire Kubernetes cluster dimension.

### Monitor the host

Monitoring the host and its resources works in the same way as monitoring physical resources of a traditional server.

If you already have a monitoring system for your physical server in your existing infrastructure, you only need to add the host that holds Kubernetes to the existing monitoring system by conventional means; if there is no monitoring system available, or you want to deploy a separate monitoring system to monitor the host that holds Kubernetes, then you can use any monitoring system that you are familiar with.

> The newly deployed monitoring system can run on a separate server, run directly on the host that holds Kubernetes, or run in a Kubernetes cluster. With different deployment methods, there might be some differences in the deployment configuration and resource utilization, but there is no major difference in usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The newly deployed monitoring system can run on a separate server, directly on the host that holds Kubernetes, or in a Kubernetes cluster. Different deployment methods might mean differences in the deployment configuration and resource utilization, but there are no major differences in usage.
```

> Common open source monitoring systems that can be used to monitor server resources are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some common open source monitoring systems that can be used to monitor server resources are:
```

- [CollectD](https://collectd.org/)
- [Nagios](https://www.nagios.org/)
- [Prometheus](http://prometheus.io/) & [node_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter)
- [Zabbix](https://www.zabbix.com/)

> Some cloud service providers or specialized performance monitoring service providers also have their own free or chargeable monitoring solutions to choose from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some cloud service providers or specialized performance monitoring service providers also have their own free or chargeable monitoring solutions that you can choose from.
```

> It is recommended to deploy a host monitoring system in the Kubernetes cluster via [Prometheus Operator](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator) based on [Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) and Prometheus. This solution can also be compatible with and used for monitoring the Kubernetes' own components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to deploy a host monitoring system in the Kubernetes cluster via [Prometheus Operator](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator) based on [Node Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter) and Prometheus. This solution can also be compatible with and used for monitoring the Kubernetes' own components.
```

### Monitor Kubernetes components

For monitoring Kubernetes components, you can refer to the solutions provided in the [Kubernetes official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/resource-usage-monitoring/) or use other Kubernetes-compatible monitoring systems.

> Some cloud service providers may provide their own solutions for monitoring Kubernetes components, and some specialized performance monitoring service providers have their own Kubernetes integration solutions to choose from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some cloud service providers may provide their own solutions for monitoring Kubernetes components, and some specialized performance monitoring service providers have their own Kubernetes integration solutions that you can choose from.
```
